In this lecture, we are going to modify the query generated by the Post's end endpoint.
As we learned the rest API does not sort the posts by your recipes rating.
The query can be modified with a filter hook to get started, open the main plugin file.
At the bottom of the hook section and a filter hook called Rest Recipe Query.
The hook we're using.
It's a dynamic hook.
The word in the middle of the hook name is a placeholder.
We can replace this portion of the name with the name of the post type.
Next, let's set the function name to up rest recipe query.
Throughout this course, we've been sticking to the first two parameters of the hook functions.
There's a third and fourth parameter.
These parameters are optional.
In most cases, hooks will provide at least one value to our functions.
However, a hook can provide multiple values.
The rest query hook is an example of a hook with multiple values.
By default, the add action and add filter functions will limit hooks to one value.
We must explicitly instruct WordPress to allow for multiple values to be sent.
We can configure this option with the fourth parameter.
Let's set the third parameter to ten.
The third parameter configures the priority of a function.
Multiple functions can run during a hook.
The default priority assigned to a function is ten.
The lower the number, the higher the priority.
Let's leave the priority at its default value.
Our focus will be on the fourth arguments.
The fourth argument is the number of arguments accepted by our function.
Let's set this argument to two.
Typically, our function would receive one value.
By setting this parameter to two, our function will be able to accept two values.
Let's define our function inside the includes slash rest API folder.
Create a file called recipe query mod php.
Inside this file.
Define the up rest recipe query function.
In the argument list and two arguments called arguments and request.
The arguments argument will contain information on the query, whereas the request argument will contain
information on the request sent by the client.
Both arguments will be helpful in our function.
Before we start modifying the query, let's check out a class called WP Query.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to this class.
Behind the scenes, WordPress uses this class to query the database for grabbing posts.
If you scroll through the documentation, you'll get the feeling that it never ends.
It's one of the most documented classes in WordPress.
This class gives us the power to sort and filter posts in the database by different parameters.
We can grab posts by specific authors.
Taxonomies and metadata posts can be sorted by their title or date.
The results of this class can be modified by an argument on the sidebar.
Click on the order and order by parameters link.
This section of the documentation provides information on how to sort post data.
The order by parameter can accept various values.
The value we're interested in is called meta value number.
According to the documentation, setting the order by parameter to this value will assert the data by
a metadata field.
This is exactly what we are hoping to accomplish.
Reading further, the documentation states that another parameter must exist within the query called
meta key.
This parameter will set the metadata field to sort the post SPI.
Let's apply these parameters to the query.
Head back to the editor.
Inside the function lets create a variable called order by the value for this variable will be the request
parameter function.
Sorting posts by metadata should be optional.
Whenever you're modifying a query, the default behavior must be left intact.
Before modifying the query, let's check the request for a parameter called Order by rating.
If this parameter exists on the request, we can safely assume that the post should be sorted by their
rating.
This is a custom parameter created by us.
It's not a parameter that exists within the current API.
After creating this variable, create a conditional statement with the following condition.
Is set order by rating.
Inside the body of the condition.
Let's modify the arguments argument.
This variable is an array of settings that will be passed on to the WP query class.
The parameters listed on the documentation page for this class can be applied to this array.
Let's set the order by key to meta value num.
Next, let's set the meta key parameter to recipe rating.
The key parameter will set the metadata key to sort the post spy.
WordPress will query the database for a list of recipes.
The order of the recipes will be sorted by their rating.
The last step is to return the arguments argument from the function.
Let's return this value after the conditional statements.
Our function is ready.
Let's try testing our end point with Postman.
I'm going to continue working with the request created in the previous lecture under the parameter section.
Add the order by rating parameter.
This parameter does not need a value as long as it's added as a parameter.
Our function will modify the query.
In addition, let's change the direction of the order at a parameter called order.
The order parameter can be sent to ascending or descending.
In our case we are trying to order the posts in descending order.
Set this parameter to descending.
Lastly, let's send the request.
In the body of the response.
The order of posts has changed.
The first post is called Recipe one.
Followed by recipe three.
Lastly, we have a post called Recipe two.
This is the correct order.
We've successfully ordered the posts in the API request.
We can start sending this request from our block in the next lecture.
Let's update our block to grab these posts.